When I re-installed the boards I had some nice document written on how to install it and stuff. Something crashed though, and I never had time to rewrite it.

Boards runs on a piece of software called inn (InterNetNews) version 2.something. It's in repos as inn2. The google turned up [this document](http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/faqs/inn.html) about it. You shouldn't really need to touch it anyway.

## Reinstalling news

I don't remember exactly what was involved, but here's what I do remember:


*  Install inn2 from repos (not inn, which gives you version 1, which is completly different)

*  Copy /etc/news/ /var/spool/news & /var/lib/news (and possibly something else) to the new machine

*  You have to rebuild the history or something before it'll work, there's a command that I can't remember.

## Mailing list boards

Stuff like this is generated by piping into a script from a mail alias

	
	# Mailing list to news aliases.
	#
	# $Id: lists_aliases,v 1.5 2003/11/13 11:05:47 tuama Exp $
	#
	
	redbrick-bugtraq: "|/srv/admin/scripts/m2n/mail2nntp.pl lists.bugtraq"
	redbrick-ilug: "|/srv/bin/m2n/mail2nntp.pl lists.ilug"
	gmail-invites: "|/srv/admin/scripts/m2n/mail2nntp.pl redbrick.gmail-invites"
	redbrick-debian-security: "|/srv/admin/scripts/m2n/mail2nntp.pl lists.debian-security"
	redbrick-apache: "|/srv/admin/scripts/m2n/mail2nntp.pl lists.apache"
	redbrick-exim: "|/srv/admin/scripts/m2n/mail2nntp.pl lists.exim"


Note: The stuff like announce or gamessoc mails going to boards is generated by mailman


## rss2news

Link looks after this.

##  Checklist for INN2 reinstall

*  install INN2 from apt.

*  Copy the following : /etc/news/ /var/spool/news /var/lib/news to the relevant parts of the new machine.

*  Run makehistory -0

*  cd to /var/lib/news and run makedbz -s `wc -l < history` -o

*  reconfigure slrn to use this copy of Inn and check everything's there.

*  change the ip for news.
 
## stopping annoying daily mail

	
	[root@morpheus /etc/cron.d]# head /etc/cron.d/inn2 
	SHELL=/bin/sh
	PATH=/usr/lib/news/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin
	
	# Expire old news and overview entries nightly, generate reports.
	
	15 4    * * *   news    test -x /usr/lib/news/bin/news.daily && news.daily expireover lowmark delayrm nomail > /dev/null


## Moving news

*  install inn2 (obviously enough)
*  follow the instructions here [here](http://www.eyrie.org/~eagle/faqs/inn.html#S6.4) 
*  Note that you do not *need* anything in passwd.nntp, as I was led to believe, we seemed to hit upon some sort of weird bug, as long as the old server is listed in incoming.conf. 
