docs/services/exim.md, before:

# Exim on RedBrick
All RedBrick machines run exim for mail sending. With the exception of mailhost
and mailhost2 (these service ips should be held by the primary and secondary
service boxes), all the machines should just forward all their mail to
mailhost/mailhost2.

The mailhosts do the actual delivery to user home directories, receive mail from
the internet etc.

## Mailhost.RedBrick Setup
Please document me properly during the morpheus migration.

#### Mail Aliases
Aliases need to be set on the primary mailhost, which is currently carbon. The
makefile should manage sending these to the secondary (it doesn't, but the
secondary doesn't currently exist)

The aliases are stored in /etc/mail.

* aliases - system aliases, stuff like admins, committee
* personal_aliases - aliases for user accounts
* user_disusered_aliases
* user_rename_aliases - put aliases in here when you rename users.
* lists_aliases - aliases that forward mail from mailing lists to the boards.
  Depends on [mail2nntp](/procedures/redbrick-apt)
* virtuals

All these files are under RCS. Be sure to check them in and out when editing.
After making changes just `make exim_aliases` to rebuild the aliases. This
doesn't require a restart of exim to take affect.

The exim_aliases.txt file is generated by the makefile. It should always reflect
the aliases currently live. You should not edit this file by hand, it won't do
anything anyway.

## Mailhost2.RedBrick Setup
Configured on metharme, roughly the same config as mailhost, but set
`configtype` to `smarthost` and set `dc_relay_domains` to `redbrick.dcu.ie` in
`/etc/exim4/update-exim4.conf.conf`

Ticket needs to be raised with ISS to check access is allowed externally, this
is not working currently.

## Other machines
Basic exim setup to just forward all mail...

### I have debian/ubuntu \o/
Lucky you. Despite debian's best efforts to make configuring exim a massive pain
your job is fairly easy. Just `dkpg-reconfigure exim-config` and tell it that
you have a `smarthost` which is `mailhost.redbrick.dcu.ie`

In its infinite wisdom, debian get's the bit of the email address after the `@`
by reading `/etc/mailname`, and chopping off everything before the first dot.
So you should have the server's FQDN in here *not* redbrick.dcu.ie, since
that'll make everyone send mail as dcu.ie.

### I don't have debian :(
* Install Exim from somewhere.
* Go through the config file and fill out primary_hostname & qualify_domain (should be redbrick.dcu.ie) along with whatever else takes your fancy.
* Unless you know what you're doing don't touch the acl section.
* Delete the Routers & Transports section
* Put this in it's place:

```
######################################################################
#                      ROUTERS CONFIGURATION                         #
#               Specifies how addresses are handled                  #
######################################################################

begin routers

send_to_gateway:
	driver = manualroute
	domains = !+local_domains
	transport = remote_smtp
	route_list = "* mailhost.ipv4.redbrick.dcu.ie "
	fallback_hosts =  mailhost2.ipv4.redbrick.dcu.ie : mailhost.ipv6.redbrick.dcu.ie : mailhost2.ipv6.redbrick.dcu.ie

#
# Just send all mail to a proper mailhost. Don't do any local delivery shite.
#
######################################################################
#                      TRANSPORTS CONFIGURATION                      #
######################################################################
#                       ORDER DOES NOT MATTER                        #
#     Only one appropriate transport is called for each delivery.    #
######################################################################
# A transport is used only when referenced from a router that successfully
# handles an address.
begin transports
# This transport is used for delivering messages over SMTP connections.
remote_smtp:
  driver = smtp
```

* Don't touch anything else, unless you want to ;)
* If you're scripting this to run as a service the options you probably want
  are: `/path/to/exim -bd -q10m`

On OpenBSD it's nicely packaged, on Solaris it's not. You can get one from
blastwave (it's in use on murphy at the time of writing), or you could build
your own. I build 4.69 for murphy, there's a tar with instructions in
`/srv/admin/src` (unless someone deleted it)

Commit message:

Update exim to remove useless information (#41)

docs/services/exim.md, after:

# Exim on RedBrick
All RedBrick machines run exim for mail sending. With the exception of the mail servers, all the machines should just forward all their mail to Redbrick's MX records.

The mail servers do the actual delivery to user home directories, receive mail from the internet etc.

## Mail Setup
Please document this properly.

#### Mail Aliases
Aliases need to be set on the primary mailhost.

The aliases are stored in /etc/mail.

* aliases - system aliases, stuff like admins, committee
* personal_aliases - aliases for user accounts
* user_disusered_aliases
* user_rename_aliases - put aliases in here when you rename users.
* lists_aliases - aliases that forward mail from mailing lists to the boards.
  Depends on [mail2nntp](/procedures/redbrick-apt)
* virtuals

All these files are under git. Be sure to check them in and out when editing.
After making changes just `make exim_aliases` to rebuild the aliases. This
doesn't require a restart of exim to take affect.

The exim_aliases.txt file is generated by the makefile. It should always reflect
the aliases currently live. You should not edit this file by hand, it won't do
anything anyway.

## Other machines
Basic exim setup to just forward all mail...

### I have debian/ubuntu \o/
Lucky you. Despite debian's best efforts to make configuring exim a massive pain
your job is fairly easy. Just `dkpg-reconfigure exim-config` and tell it that
you have a `smarthost` which is `mailhost.redbrick.dcu.ie`

In its infinite wisdom, debian get's the bit of the email address after the `@`
by reading `/etc/mailname`, and chopping off everything before the first dot.
So you should have the server's FQDN in here *not* redbrick.dcu.ie, since
that'll make everyone send mail as dcu.ie.

### I don't have debian :(
* Install Exim from somewhere.
* Go through the config file and fill out primary_hostname & qualify_domain (should be redbrick.dcu.ie) along with whatever else takes your fancy.
* Unless you know what you're doing don't touch the acl section.
* Delete the Routers & Transports section
* Put this in it's place:

```
######################################################################
#                      ROUTERS CONFIGURATION                         #
#               Specifies how addresses are handled                  #
######################################################################

begin routers

send_to_gateway:
	driver = manualroute
	domains = !+local_domains
	transport = remote_smtp
	route_list = "* mailhost.ipv4.redbrick.dcu.ie "
	fallback_hosts =  mailhost2.ipv4.redbrick.dcu.ie : mailhost.ipv6.redbrick.dcu.ie : mailhost2.ipv6.redbrick.dcu.ie

#
# Just send all mail to a proper mailhost. Don't do any local delivery shite.
#
######################################################################
#                      TRANSPORTS CONFIGURATION                      #
######################################################################
#                       ORDER DOES NOT MATTER                        #
#     Only one appropriate transport is called for each delivery.    #
######################################################################
# A transport is used only when referenced from a router that successfully
# handles an address.
begin transports
# This transport is used for delivering messages over SMTP connections.
remote_smtp:
  driver = smtp
```

* Don't touch anything else, unless you want to ;)
* If you're scripting this to run as a service the options you probably want
  are: `/path/to/exim -bd -q10m`
